first let me give an update on the
latest data that we have on coronavirus
and I can report that through the
government's ongoing monitoring and
testing program as of today we there
have now been one million three hundred
and eighty three thousand eight hundred
and forty two tests for coronavirus
across the UK including eighty four
thousand eight hundred and six tests
yesterday we know that one hundred
ninety four thousand nine hundred and
ninety people have tested positive and
that's an increase of four thousand four
hundred and six cases since yesterday
and of those who have tested positive
twenty nine thousand four hundred and
twenty seven have very sadly died and
our hearts go out to everyone who has
lost a loved one
throughout the coronavirus challenge we
continue to see evidence of a flattening
of the peak of this virus but as the
figures that I've just read out show
it's not over yet so in the coming days
saij will update ministers with their
latest scientific advice and as ever we
will make sure that we are continued we
continue to be guided by their advice as
we take the decisions on next steps in
fighting this virus alongside the advice
that we get from sage our five tests
remain absolutely key first we must
continue to boost NHS capacity so that
the NHS cannot be overwhelmed second we
need to see a sustained and consistent
fall in the number of deaths thirdly we
must see further reductions in the rate
of infection to manageable levels across
all different settings and areas fourth
we must be confident that the NHS will
be able to cope with future demands
including as a result of any changes
that we make to existing measures or
indeed any new measures that we might
wish to take and fifth and above all we
need to be confident that any
adjustments to the current measures
won't risk a second peak of infections
that could then overwhelm the NHS later
on this week the PM will update the
country on the measures and the
decisions that we will need to take to
protect the NHS to safeguard the economy
and to avoid the risk of a second peak
that will be damaging both for public
health but also for jobs and the wider
economy and as we consider the decisions
that we will take next to protect life
but also to protect our way of life it's
now clear that the second phase will be
different we will need to adjust to a
new normal where we as a society adapt
to safe new ways to work to travel to
interact and to go about our daily lives
we've never experienced anything like
this first stage of covert 19 in terms
of the scale of the lives lost but also
the lockdown that it is required and as
we go forward we want to make sure that
the next phase is more comfortable is
more sustainable and prevents lasting
damage to jobs and livelihoods but we
need to be under no illusions the next
stage won't be easy and if we're going
to protect life and preserve our way of
life as I just said we must continue to
be guided by the scientific advice we
receive and make sure the next steps
that we take are sure-footed and
sustainable now before I hand over to
Angela to run through the data slides I
want to provide an update on one further
feature that coronavirus as a challenge
has thrown up for this country and
indeed for the whole world whilst the
vast majority of people and countries
have come together and rallied to this
international mission to defeat
coronavirus there will always be some
who seek to exploit a crisis for their
own criminal and hostile ends we know
that cyber criminals and other malicious
groups are targeting individuals
businesses and other organizations by
deploying kovat 19 related scams and
phishing emails and that includes groups
that in the cyber security world are
known as advanced persistent threat
groups sophisticated networks of hackers
who try to breach computer systems we
have clear evidence now that these
criminal gangs are actively targeting
national and international organizations
which are responding to the covert 19
pandemic which I have to say makes them
particularly dangerous and venal at this
time so we're working with the targets
of those attacks with the potential
targets and with others to make sure
that they're aware of the cyber threat
and that they can take the steps
necessary to protect themselves or at
the very least mitigate the harm that
could be brought against them so with
that in mind today the UK's national
cybersecurity Center and the u.s. cyber
security and infrastructure security
agency have published a joint warning
about these groups and we've offered
some advice on the cyber criminals and
other actors who are seeking to exploit
Kovach 19 through malicious cyber
activity our teams have identified
campaigns targeting health care bodies
pharmaceutical companies for search
organizations and also various different
arms of local government now there are
various objectives and motivations that
lie behind these attacks from fraud on
the one hand to espionage but they tend
to be designed to steal bulk personal
data intellectual property and wider
information that supports those aims and
they're often linked with other state
actors and we expect this kind of
predatory criminal behavior to continue
into evolved over the coming weeks and
months ahead and we're taking a range of
measures to tackle that threat so as
we've done today we'll share advice on
the nature of those threats to enable
businesses citizens and our
international partners to better defend
themselves against the full range of
cyber attack from hostile States to
criminal gangs preventive action is
often the very best way to deny attack
as the opportunities that they're
looking for the national cybersecurity
Center offers a range of practical
advice to safeguard against cyberattacks
from things like using the use of online
passwords to guidance on what are the
trusted sources of online information
related to covert 19 like the gun
or public health England now as well as
providing practical advice the UK will
continue to counter those who conduct
cyberattacks and we're working very
closely with our international partners
to respond to the threats but also to
deter their gangs and the arms of state
who lie behind them we're absolutely
determined to defeat coronavirus and
also to defeat those trying to exploit
the situation for their own nefarious
ends and with that I'll pass over to
Professor mcclain to give us the latest
update on the data if I could have the
first slide please
so the first slide reminds us what are
the five tests for adjusting lockdown
but number one is that we should always
ensure that the NHS has enough capacity
that is able to provide critical care
and specialist treatment right across
the UK the second is that we should see
a sustained and consistent form in daily
deaths from coronavirus and the third is
that there must be reliable data to show
that the rate of infection is decreasing
to manageable levels right across the
board fourth is that operational
challenges including testing and PPE
must be in hand with supply able to meet
future demand and fifth is that we
should be confident that any adjustments
that are made to current measures will
not risk a second peak of infections
that overwhelms the NHS if I could have
the next slide please so this is a slide
about transport use and how it's changed
in Great Britain since the let's have a
look since February so those percentages
are relative to normal use during
February and the vertical dotted line is
the date when lockdown started and what
you see is that for public transport
there has been a very marked and very
persistent fall for that but fought for
bus for tube for national rail
also engraver the back for buses in
London for motor vehicle so that's the
top dark blue line what you see is a
pattern that looks a bit like commuting
because it's low every weekend and we do
worry about that creeping up I think all
of us remember that what we've done
together which is to stay home has
worked to protect the NHS and save lives
and as one of the people who looks at
this data and thinks about how it fits
into how we think about the future
it does trouble me that the dark blue
line is creeping up again next slide
please
this is a number of pests that have
occurred every day in the UK since 6th
of April up until the most recent data
which are from yesterday and what you
see is that very dramatic rise that
happened during April so that now we do
have a lot of tests available that allow
us to design the kinds of testing
strategies that we're going to need in
the future next slide please
this is one of the ways we have of
counting how many people in the UK are
infected so in two colors here are
people who have tested positive in dark
blue people who are tested by the NHS
and in orange are people whose tests
were performed by universities research
institutes and private companies so most
of people most of the people in the dark
blue pillars there are either patients
or NHS staff whereas most people in the
orange pillars are other key workers and
this data is extremely interesting but
it is quite susceptible to the fact that
the number of tests has been increasing
and who's allowed to have a test has
also been changing so actually I find
the next slide a lot more informative so
what this is is the number of new in
patients in hospitals in England every
day with kovat so this is every day
since the 20th of March either in dark
blue an inpatient who was in hospital
and got back ok
a positive test or in gold there
somebody who arrived at hospital having
already tested positive so in so this is
always the same kind of people and these
people were always the top priority to
get a test so in some sense this is a
much more pure data stream than the one
I showed you before and in fact to my
mind at least makes much more sense so
what you see is that number rising from
the 20th of March until it Peaks on the
2nd of April now the 2nd of April is
about the date we would we would have
expected it to peak because that's about
10 days after the 23rd of March when
lockdown came in and then from the 2nd
of April it falls away pretty rapidly so
what this is is the inflow into the
hospital system of people who are coded
positive and we watched this number with
great care every day if I could have the
next slide so if that was the inflow
into the hospital system this is the
total number of people in hospital with
coded on any given day so that's so
that's the bit really the balance
between people who came in and people
who left and so that has a rather
smoother pattern and and a much slower
fall and what you see is that that
peaked around about the 10th or so of
April in London that the peak in London
was much higher than everywhere else
perhaps very slightly earlier and the
fall in the number of people in hospital
in London has been faster than
everywhere else so much so now actually
that in the last couple of days the
number of people in London sorry in
hospital in London now exceeds numbers
in hospital in the Northwest next slide
please
this keeps track of the proportion of
critical care beds that are occupied by
patients with Kobe 19 and what you see
is that that also has fallen from its
peak in early April now down to less
than a third of all the critical care
beds being occupied by Kobe 19 patients
it's been decreasing for most of the UK
over the last two weeks and it's
beginning to come down to what we might
define as more manageable levels next
slide please
these are recorded deaths from Kovach 19
in blue bars are the actual numbers
reported each day so today being the
fifth of May we got monday's figures in
and you can see there's a very regular
pattern that numbers at the weekend are
always lower than the day subsequently
so that jump from the fourth of May the
fifth of May is something that we would
expect the because listen data has such
a strong pattern across different days
of the week it makes sense to look at a
seven-day rolling average and that's
what the orange line is and what you can
see from that orange line is that the
number of kovat recorded deaths is
falling and has been falling steadily
since the middle of April next slide
please
this records registered deaths from
coded nineteen by the place where that
death occurred and that we got it for
five different weeks and the most recent
week for which we have this data is is
the week of the 24th of April the gray
bars are deaths in hospital the dark
grey bars are deaths in care homes pale
blue is deaths in one's own home and
dark blue is other places and what you
see is that whilst deaths in hospital
have been falling deaths in care homes
in the week to the 24th of April were
still rising to the extent that in that
week
that's in care homes were about half as
many as all the deaths in hospitals I
think what that shows us is that there
is a real issue that we need to get to
grips with about what is happening in
care homes the final slide for today is
a comparison of numbers of deaths for
different countries the UK which is koba
deaths in all settings is the gray line
in the middle where and what you see is
that deaths in the UK is still
continuing to climb and is higher than
we would wish I think is all I can say
and without an end the data slides for
today Angela thank you very much we'll
now take some questions starting with
questions from members of the public
do we have Brendan from Gloucestershire
there my name is Fred McInerney and I
volunteer in the local community in
Gloucester Gloucester Shire
my question is as we come through the
tough times of kovat how can we embed
our reflective learning so as to ensure
we address inequalities across community
and neighbours and continue to invest
and empower local communities to thrive
thank you
well Brendan thank you very much and I
want to pay tribute to everyone in
Gloucestershire from the key workers
like the NHS staff to people working in
care homes to all those doing those
critical jobs whether it's in
supermarkets or running deliveries which
have kept the lifeblood of our
communities going I think you're
absolutely right to say that
particularly after pretty unique
pandemic something that certainly I've
never seen before in my lifetime we will
all want to learn lessons in this
country and across the world and I think
one of the things that we found with
coronaviruses it hasn't discriminated
we've got the Prime Minister who's been
laid low with it we've got people all
across the country no one
has been impervious to this virus and I
think it's also taught us to appreciate
those key workers that I mentioned not
just those in the NHS and care homes who
obviously doing an amazing job but also
those keeping our supermarkets running
keeping deliveries flowing and up and
down the country and as you will
probably remember from the general
election the prime minister's big
overarching goal is to level up right
across the country and I think this is
this crisis has been a timely reminder
important that agenda and that political
gender is going to be but first things
first we've got to get through this
crisis recover bounce back if we can the
economy
make sure those small businesses and the
employers are fitting and we provide
them with a bridge through the current
set of challenges and make sure I think
we come together as one country is I
think we've seen in this national
mission to tackle the core advice and
try and keep that spirit alive and as we
go forward but I think there are lessons
to be learned and there are
opportunities to learn those lessons in
a really positive way when we come
through the immediate crisis and please
if you could I think you raised an
incredibly important point Bren
infectious diseases always do and always
will target the disadvantaged and I
think one of the things that we fear as
we hopefully bring the incidence of
infection so the number of people who
infected every day right down to very
low levels is that infection will
disappear into parts of our communities
that are really really hard to reach and
I think it's incumbent on all of us
including our scientists to find ways
that we could make sure that we can
track the ongoing spread of infection
amongst every part of our society yeah
thanks Angela and I think next up is
Jane from West Yorkshire I think we've
got a Jane from West Yorkshire asks I'll
read this out because we've had this one
messaged in to us in respect of the
track and trace app is this something
that will work worldwide once travel can
begin again and if not why was this not
embarked on as a global initiative and I
think the reality is we won't be
the apt to be focused on the UK and we
want the technology to be tailored to
make sure we can deal with the specific
challenges that we've got in this
country we've worked with the the
experts we've got in the National Cyber
Security Center to make sure we've got
the greatest protections on things like
privacy and we've got very high
standards both of professionalism but of
privacy as we embark on what will be an
unprecedented IT project and not
everyone and not all countries around
the world will have the same standards
whether they're tech standards or
whether they're privacy standards so I
think it's right to say we should learn
internationally about the tech
innovation that's going on but we want
to make sure we've got something
tailored to UK needs and we're applying
very highest UK standards Android all
right Thank You Jane for that question
we'll go on to ask David schuiteman from
the BBC onto the media David thank you
very much indeed yes a question about
the death tolls looking at the official
figures that you've just announced and
comparing them with figures announced
this evening by Italy it does now seem
that the UK has had more deaths from
Cobra 19 than any other country in
Europe if it does turn out that we are
the country that's hardest hit in Europe
what's your reaction to that well thanks
David you're asking me to speculate
though all I just say is first of all
29,000 427 lives lost is a massive
tragedy something in this country on
this scale in this way that we've never
seen before and as I said before my
heart goes out to anyone that's lost a
loved one in terms of the the comparison
that you're suggesting I as the
scientists have all said I can remember
Patrick valance and Chris Witte talking
about this I don't think we'll get a
real verdict on how well countries have
done until the pandemic is over in
particularly until we've got
comprehensive international data on all
cause mortality but I think there's two
points that I would make about the way
the UK has approached things there are
different ways of counting deaths as we
know we've had that debate in this
country
we now publish data that includes all
deaths in all settings and not all
countries do that so I'm not sure that
the International comparison works
unless your can reliably know that all
countries are measuring in the same way
and it also depends on how good frankly
countries are in gathering their
statistics and our own Office of
National Statistics is widely
acknowledged to be a world leader and
one of the reasons we've embraced that
is because we want the transparency
because we confidently believe that it's
only if we get the full transparency
that we'll be in the best place to
tackle this virus so I think it is
important but I don't think you can make
the international comparisons you're
suggesting at this stage not at least I
don't you can make them reliably Angela
I would just reiterate I think we have
decided that our measure of how things
have gone will be age adjusted all cause
mortality because that will capture all
kinds of impacts of kovat not just the
Cova deaths and clearly important to do
what we can to make international
comparisons everybody knows that making
international comparisons in such
statistics can be difficult and it may
be that that will take some time to to
sort out and this isn't over yet David
you want to come back on any of that a
lot of topic if I may last week the
prime minister suggested there may be
situations where there could be benefits
from the public wearing masks does that
mean that UK government policy on this
has changed and if it hasn't changed
like the public be forgiven for being a
bit confused well of course you're
always trying to tempt us to get as one
or two steps out of the game the reality
is we're considering the sage advice
that advice has been nuanced if I can
set like that the evidence is rather
finely balanced but we'll make sure that
we consider it very carefully one of the
things we don't want to do is give
people inaccurate advice or create false
confidence or comfort in in mass and
also there's a key difference between
master for example the self-made master
some people around the world have been
encouraged to use and the clinical mass
that we need for the NHS and we do not
want
tract from the supplies of masks and
other PPE frankly going to the frontline
in the NHS or care home workers but the
wider advice we'll consider and shortly
be saying more on Andrews own finger dad
thanks David
Robert Peston at ITV good afternoon and
I absolutely accept that it's too early
to draw firm conclusions about whether
our death rate will be the highest in
Europe but Angela you just said when
pointing to your own chart of
international comparisons the death toll
is higher than we would wish on the
basis of that we have recently
instituted a new system of mass testing
and we're recruiting lots of people to
do tracking tracing and quarantine iing
would you hope when this new
infrastructure is in place that that
death line will track down to nearer
Germany and Korea which have much lower
death rates because after all as Chris
what he said on Friday we're going to be
living with coronavirus possibly forever
and the lethality of growing a virus
it's gonna take us months if not years
to get it down let me have first step
and I'll hand over to to Angela I mean
the first thing to say is that the big
thing that has helped us flatten the
peak is the public's adherence to the
social distancing guidance that we've
laid out not only has that helped reduce
the number of deaths they would
otherwise have been they could have been
higher but it's also helped us preserve
NHS capacity which means that we've been
able to deal with kovat 19 patients but
also other patients I think the the key
is going to be with tests tracking and
tracing is going to be the extent to
which we it gives us the flexibility to
transition into a second phase safely in
a sure-footed way and sustainably and I
think that's the key to the test
tracking and tracing Angela so the last
graph that I was showing you is actually
cumulative deaths so there is no way it
can go down the very best that it can do
is go flat because once there are no
dead
it becomes completely flat and of course
I want it to become flat for the UK as
quickly as possible
and the only way other countries could
catch up would be if they had more
deaths and I'm certainly not going to
wish that on anybody so I think if there
a sooner all of these can settle down to
flat lines the better Rob Jones come
back with any more but just on that just
do you think mass testing tracking
tracing is gonna be the big initiative
that gets that curve to flatten in the
way that we all want yeah I mean I think
we're all of us working really hard to
figure out if we can do contact tracing
in a way that will really start to find
all of the infections out there in the
community find people who have symptoms
get them tested find good quick reliable
ways to find the people they've been in
contact with and ask them to go into
quarantine that is that is the strategy
that has worked in South Korea and South
Korea is really the place in the world
that we can look to and say this worked
it's a large country like we are they
did have quite a big outbreak actually
that they brought under control with
contact tracing so I think they are a
fine example to us and we should try to
emulate what they've achieved and Rob
just I think we need be really clear
about the moment we're at and the
relevance and the value of test tracking
and tracing are real risk right now is
we come through the peak we start to see
as come through the worst stage of this
crisis is that we move to ease up too
early without having a sensible sure
footed plan and we see a second spike or
a second wave test tracking and tracing
allows us as well as getting the our
rate down through the social distancing
measures which gives us extra
flexibility test tracking and tracing
allows us to manage that very carefully
because any second
reemergence of the virus wherever it may
be we can control and measure and
monitor very swiftly I think that's the
crucial importance of it Sam Coates from
Sky
and Andrew McLean the Scottish
government daily scientific research
suggesting that if schools go back north
of the border then hospitals could be
overwhelmed they're within two months
and in the worst case scenario become
more than seven times oversubscribed is
that based on a science that you
recognize and what might be the policy
lessons that you could draw from that
and first Secretary of State Boris
Johnson has said that there will be some
delays at the border when we leave the
current brexit implementation period
today we also began trade talks with the
u.s. given the level of uncertainty
facing the economy and business is this
additional burden the right thing to do
at this time or conversely do you think
that are actually benefits from doing
grexit tools at this time well look I
think there is a whole load of
uncertainty we have worked very closely
with my European opposite numbers right
across Europe and actually it's been a
good example of frankly in this
challenge we come together we work on
practical cooperation whether it's PPE
procurement or returning our Nationals
and we have very close cooperation it
reminds us of the ties that do bind us
together I think on all sides we'll want
to avoid any further uncertainty so
actually the smart thing for us to do is
focus on the track that we've got are we
making good progress or we're making
progress I should say in relation to the
future relationship negotiations we're
not there yet but this that the right
thing to do I think for the UK but also
for you is to avoid any future
uncertainty beyond the end of this year
by agreeing what ought to be a
reasonably straightforward approach
negotiating the the detail will never be
entirely straightforward but because
it's based on the standard precedence
that the EU is adopted with other third
countries and that will be the surest
way to make sure we can give our
economies our boost by maintaining
seamless and as frictionless trade as
possible and that is the way both the UK
and European countries got an
opportunity to bounce back after this I
think prolonging the uncertainty of the
brexit negotiation is unnecessary and
will actually make that uncertainty
worse
and renewal so I don't know the study
that you're talking about but I do know
that we there are some profound
uncertainties in the underlying data
about how likely children are to catch
coded and how infectious they would be
if they caught it and it's really quite
difficult to to trace because they tend
not have symptoms really or their
symptoms are very mild if they do catch
it so there's not very much data because
they haven't been many children with
symptoms and of course most schools have
been in lockdown for a long time now so
that is perfectly possible to produce
projections for what's going to happen
based on reasonable interpretations of
rather a thin evidence base that go
either way
that being said one of the things that
everybody is very clear about is that
whatever we change we will make
absolutely sure that we were monitoring
the situation so that we don't get a
outbreaks when are they those started in
schools or or in workplaces so I don't I
don't I I don't imagine any country in
the UK having an outbreak that would
overwhelm their NHS that their health
systems sevenfold one of the things we
can do as well as making absolute most
of all the data that we do have is to
watch very carefully for those for those
in those countries that have reopened
their schools and see what happens there
so that's one of the several things we
are doing in order to make a decision
based on as much science as we can find
about what is likely to happen so we'd
like to come back on any of those it was
just in the answer to my question for
Secretary of State you corrected
yourself from good progress to just
progress why is the end-of-year deadline
quite so important given the massive
scale of the pandemic crisis that we're
facing well I know that if we talk about
the positives of this there'll be
someone somewhere on either side of the
channel who will say oh no it's we're
all you know it's going terribly the
reality is progress has been made and
we're confident we can get there and
look we do face a challenge with
coronavirus but they'll be damage to
economy
to bounce back but actually one of the
things we know that businesses would
like some certainty of know knowing that
this has been concluded I think the
country wants some certainty and we're
elected on that basis and actually what
this crisis altar allow us to do not
least through the goodwill and the
spirit of cooperation that we've had
with our European partners is to knuckle
down focus on what really matters agree
a pretty well precedented free trade
agreement with our EU partners which
they've already agreed with other third
countries and allow both sides to move
on in that spirit of cooperation in
goodwill that I mentioned so that's what
we'll be focused on thanks Sam thank you
very much Jason gross for the Daily Mail
thanks for secretary can I pick up on
Sam's question though about schools and
ask what you think if the prospect of
them reopening are given they have found
uncertainties that professor mcclain
books about and the fact that Scotland
seems to be pretty clear they're not
gonna be opening their schools anytime
soon
and professor mcclain can I ask you
about one of the emerging risk factors
that that of obesity is said to be a lot
of interest in this subject I wonder
could you tell us anything about how
much evidence of 'is that it's a risk
factor and whether people should think
about going on a diet Jason thanks very
much so on the issue of schools first of
all I really feel for parents who have
had to chat at the challenge of
balancing working from home with home
schooling I feel for their teachers who
had to make that work as well I think
there's been an exceptional effort to
make that a viable and to make it work
it's also schools being closed has a an
impact on the economy because so many of
those workers can't go back to work as
normal
the crucial bit for us is the five tests
and the risk of a second spike in
relation to any new changes that we
would make but that must of course
include schools so one of things we've
done is we've asked sage to look at
different options I don't think it's
binary and I think the one thing I can
say with confidence is at least today
the evidence has been the
we wouldn't be able to open up all
schools without a very real risk that
the our rates of the transmission rate
would rise at such a level that we would
risk a second spike but we've our sage
for the options on this and we'll as
ever be continued by the scientific
advice we get and you wanted me to talk
about obesity so we had very fine
evidence actually from rather beautiful
studies gathered from inpatients in our
hospitals with clave at 19 and those
studies show that indeed once you're in
hospital being obese is a an additional
risk factor for being admitted to ICU or
indeed for death my understanding about
the way to lose weight is that going on
a diet isn't the way to do it and what
you have to do is actually decide to
completely change your lifestyle you
have to decide to do something that's
going to be enduring not just going on a
diet and I understand that that's a
really difficult thing to do but under
all circumstances pandemic or no
pandemic it's better not to be obese
thanks Jason can we go on to andy dan
from the mirror please yes secretary in
France and Holland professional Schwartz
has been suspended until September at
the earliest but here the Premier League
is making extremely detailed plans for a
possible return in mid-june is this
really is this realistic and is the
government actively encouraging it as a
measure that might somehow lifts the
spirits of the nation well it's John and
yeah I think it would lift the spirits
of the nation I think people would like
to see us get back not just to work and
get to a stage where safely our children
go to school but also enjoy some of
those pastimes sporting in particular
and there have been another governments
had constructive meetings with sports
bodies to plan for athletes to resume
training when it's safe to do so I can
tell you that the culture Secretary has
also been working on a plan to get
sports played behind closed doors when
some of the when we move to the second
phase so that's something that I can
tell you we're looking at
and of course we come back to the key
point though we can only do it when the
medical the scientific advice is that it
can be done safely and sustainably but
certainly that's something under active
consideration and everything else you'd
like to ask yes when you say and safely
will there always be an element of risk
if Premier League footballers or any
footballers any sportsman go back to
playing and and secondly if we are as as
you've now said professional sports will
be behind closed doors will that be the
case until a vaccine is found
whether that be 12 months 18 months 2
years or we look and give profession
sports behind closed doors until that
moment thanks and look I can't look too
far into the future because there are
various different ways we could get
control of the virus permanently
defeated for good the vaccine is
certainly one of those therapeutics or
another I think we're all waiting to see
how effective internationally test
tracking and tracing can be but I think
that's also an option but whether it's a
combination of test tracking tracing and
other social distancing measures within
the within what's possible within a
sporting environment we want to see
whether behind closed doors what the
options are for doing that so I think
it's worth taking a closer look at that
seeing whether it's possible to do it
safely but has ever taken the scientific
and the medical advice as to when and
how to proceed Andy thank you very much
I think finally we've got will Hayward
from the Western Mail and Wales online
well thank you my first question is for
the foreign secretary and watching these
press conferences for the past six weeks
has been very confusing for many people
in Wales is so the language use makes it
very unclear if what is said applies to
then because of devolution clearly
foreign affairs such as repatriated
people from abroad abroad does apply
however commonly mentioned issues around
schools local government support the
vulnerable people health care and even
the rules of lockdown itself do not
actually apply to people in Wales do you
concede that the government could have
been clearer up till now and will you
and your ministerial colleagues commit
to making the distinction as to what
issues apply just to England in the
future
well we'll all I'd say is a knife in the
PM's absence I'd share two of the Cobras
I've been in a number of others we've
had I've got to say good cooperation
with all the develop administration's
including with the First Minister in
Wales if you look in practice at the
social distancing measures and I talked
with earlier in this press conference
about the level of compliance it has
been remarkably consistent across all of
the nations so we've actually been
pretty much in lockstep all the way I
think the right thing to do is to try
and proceed on a consistent basis
respecting the constitutional settlement
of course and that's what we've done so
far and that's one of the reasons we've
been surf ected so I think we can pull
together and as one United Kingdom at
sea ourselves sustainably through this
crisis and use anything you'd add to
that it's not much I would add I mean I
think we've succeeded so far together
and that would seem a sensible way to go
forward great did you want to come back
on any of that well what sorry the point
I was making was as much about the
language in these press conferences for
people in Wales and who naturally might
not be that well-versed in every bit of
my new CI around devolution and my
second question is actually follows on
from that the First Minister of Wales
has stated his desire for Wales in
England to come out of lockdown together
in order to keep the message simple and
how is where I was able to input into
the announcements about luck lockdown
that we are expecting this weekend and
next week and just to Professor McLean
if I may does sage take into account
Welsh data and the impact on Wales when
offering advice to NHS England and has
there been any marked differences
between Wales in England so just in
terms of the formal structures it's
really important that we do try and make
sure that there's early and consistent
and continued cooperation and
consultation so we do that through the
Welsh office we'd Michael Gove in the
Cabinet Office are doing it and of
course we have those Cobra meetings that
I discuss which bring all four nations
of the United Kingdom together and
actually you know it's a we're flexible
we're pragmatic there's not we're not
insisting on form over substance but
actually if you look at the substance
and I come back to the record the
consistent record of compliance with the
social distancing measures
we've done a pretty good job of working
together so I think the key thing is
that there's the political will on all
sides to continue that and I hope and
I'm confident that there will be so on
the science we work very hard to include
all four nations sometimes there are
data streams that we only have for
England at the moment but we do try to
make it clear to our colleagues why we
think they're incredibly useful and
therefore why are you fantastic if we
could also have them from other
countries so both on spy em and also in
Sage yes we certainly do think about
Wales I promise you well thanks very
much that brings this press conference
to a close thank you all very much so
there we are that's the end of the
latest Downing Street briefing let's
just remind you then of some of the main
points that came out of that briefing
which has just finished led there by the
foreign secretary Dominic Robb and the
deputy chief scientific adviser Angela
MacLean and what emerged from that was
that the UK is now the worst affected
country in Europe by coronavirus the
daily total number of UK deaths has
risen by 693 in all settings that's
hospitals care homes the wider community
total number of deaths is now 29,000 at
427 now that means that the United
Kingdom has now exceeded the number of
deaths in Italy which today reported
29,000 316 deaths from coronavirus also
we heard from Dominic Robb who said that
84,000 806 coronavirus tests were
provided in some form on Monday that is
below the government's target of a
hundred thousand tests a day
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dr. dot UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News